# Aresty-Summer_2023
Drug addiction is a mental illness affecting millions of people worldwide. On the path of rehabilitation from addiction, many relapse after experiencing a stimulus that was previously associated with the drug. We investigated the effects of drug use on rats and how drug-associated sound stimuli affect the brain. To do this, we trained the rats to press a bar when they heard a tone being played. Once the rats learned how to bar press, we conditioned a control group with saline and an experimental group with cocaine. We then observed differences in the sound perception of rats between the two groups. Since there are many hours of footage, the process of manually analyzing all of it is extremely labor-intensive and prone to human error. Thus, we have developed a machine-learning algorithm to aid this process. Machine learning is a valuable tool for detecting and characterizing behavioral differences in animal models of substance abuse. The automated analysis provided by machine learning offers a more objective and efficient approach compared to conventional manual methods. Using a deep neural network, the algorithm can identify the body parts of a rat with human-like precision. Although we do not have all of the data analyzed yet, we expect a greater behavioral response in cocaine-treated rats; specifically greater stimulus orienting, speaker approach, and changes in locomotion. Understanding exactly how drug use affects the brain will no doubt lead to us finding an optimal solution to helping those recovering from addiction.

